BB AKTPEERLESS

It should be noted the UST removal activities were conducted concurrently with soil removal
activities related to the redevelopment of the subject property. Therefore, although only
approximately 10 cubic yards of soil were removed from the UST excavation, additional soil was
removed from the subject property resulting in a total of 40 cubic yards as indicated on the
attached manifest.

Cc. Describe any soil remediation or disposal activities performed subsequent to
submittal of the last report, including the total volume of soil remediated or
disposed to date. Indicate the disposal location, and provide proof of disposal (e.g.,
invoices, not load tickets).

During the removal of the UST system, visual evidence of contamination was apparent in the
underlying soil in close proximity to the UST. Approximately 10 cubic yards of soil was
excavated from the UST cavity and stockpiled on visqueen. The impacted soil was manifested,
loaded, and transported off-site to Arbor Hills Landfill. Refer to Appendix B for a copy of the
waste manifest.

Dz. Provide a site diagram which depicts the horizontal and vertical extent of on-site
and off-site soil contamination. Include the maximum concentrations and sample
depths.

Soil contamination was not detected above applicable MDEQ Tier | Residential RBSLs. Refer
to Figure 6 and Table 1.

E. Provide the volume of impacted soil remaining in the vadose zone.

Based on the soil sample locations and analytical results, there is no evidence of contaminated
soil at concentrations above applicable MDEQ Part 213 Tier | RBSLs remaining at the former
UST system location.

F. Provide a table with field screening and laboratory data showing the results of all
soil sampling performed to date for the required parameters. The RRD may
request copies of the laboratory data sheets, chain-of-custody forms, and all
available QA/QC information. The table should include the following: (1) Sample
ID, (2) Sample Depth, (3) Date of collection, (4) Dates of extraction and analysis, (5)
Method Detection Limits, and (6) Analytical method or field screening instrument.

Refer to Table | for a summary of the soil analytical results and Appendix C for a copy of the
laboratory analytical reports and chain of custody documentation.

G. Provide a table which compares the maximum remaining soil contaminant
concentrations for each required parameter to the appropriate RBSLs. If
residential leaching to groundwater RBSLs are not utilized for comparison, provide
an explanation.

Refer to Table 1 for details pertaining to the maximum contaminant concentrations.
H. Provide soil boring logs not previously submitted.

Not applicable.
