AKTPEERLESS

environmental & energy services
FOOTNOTES
FOR THE PART 201 CRITERIA/PART 213 RISK-BASED SCREENING LEVELS
RRD OPERATIONAL MEMORANDUM No. I

(A) Criterion is the state of Michigan drinking water standard established pursuant to Section 5 of 1976 pa 399, mel 325.1005.

(B) Background, as defined in R 299.5701(b), may be substituted if higher than the calculated cleanup criterion. Background levels may be less than criteria for some inorganic
compounds.

(C) Value presented is a screening level based on the chemical-specific generic soil saturation concentration (C,,.) since the calculated risk-based criterion is greater than C....
Concentrations greater than C,., are acceptable cleanup criteria for this pathway where a site-specific demonstration indicates that free-phase material containing a hazardous
substance is not present.

(D) Calculated criterion exceeds 100 percent, hence it is reduced to 100 percent or 1.0E+9 parts per billion (ppb).

(E) Criterion is the aesthetic drinking water value, as required by Section 20120a(5) of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, as amended (NREPA).

(F) Criterion is based on adverse impacts to plant life and phytotoxicity.

(G) Groundwater surface water interface (GSI) criterion depends on the pH or water hardness, or both, of the receiving surface water.

(H) —_ Valence-specific chromium data (Cr III and Cr V1) shall be compared to the corresponding valence-specific cleanup criteria.

(1) Hazardous substance may exhibit the characteristic of ignitability as defined in 40 C.F.R. §261.21 (revised as of July 1, 2001), which is adopted by reference in these rules.

() Hazardous substance may be present in several isomer forms. Isomer-specific concentrations shall be added together for comparison to criteria.

(K) Hazardous substance may be flammable or explosive, or both.

(L)__ Criteria for lead are derived using a biologically based model, as allowed for under Section 20120a(10) of the NREPA, and are not calculated using the algorithms and
assumptions specified in pathway-specific rules.

(M) Calculated criterion is below the analytical target detection limit, therefore, the criterion defaults to the target detection limit.

(N) The concentrations of all potential sources of nitrate-nitrogen (e.g., ammonia-N, nitrite-N, nitrate-N) in groundwater that is used as a source of drinking water shall not, when
added together, exceed the nitrate drinking water criterion of 10,000 ug/L. Where leaching to groundwater is a relevant pathway, soil concentrations of all potential sources of
nitrate-nitrogen shall not, when added together, exceed the nitrate drinking water protection criterion of 2.0E+5 ug/kg.

(©) The concentration of all polychlorinated and polybrominated dibenzodioxin and dibenzofuran isomers present at a facility, expressed as an equivalent concentration of 2,3,7,8-
tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin based upon their relative potency, shall be added together and compared to the criteria for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.

(P) _ Amenable cyanide methods or method OIA-1677 shall be used to quantify cyanide concentrations for compliance with all groundwater criteria. Total cyanide methods or method
OIA-1677 shall be used to quantify cyanide concentrations for compliance with soil criteria, Industrial-commercial direct contact criteria may not be protective of the potential
for release of hydrogen cyanide gas. Additional land or resource use restrictions may be necessary to protect for the acute inhalation concems associated with hydrogen cyanide
gas.

(Q) Criteria for carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were developed using relative potential potencies to benzo(a)pyrene.

(R) Hazardous substance may exhibit the characteristic of reactivity as defined in 40 C.F.R. §261.23 (revised as of July 1, 2001), which is adopted by reference in these rules and is,
available for inspection at the DEQ, 525 West allegan Street, lansing, michigan. Copies of the regulation may be purchased, at a cost as of the time of adoption of these rules of
$45, from the superintendent of documents, goverment printing office, washington, de 20401 (stock number 869-044-00155-1), or from the dEQ, RRD, 525 West Allegan
Street, Lansing, Michigan 48933, at cost.

(S) Criterion defaults to the hazardous substance-specific water solubility limit.

(T) Refer to the federal Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), 40 C.F.R. §761, subpart d and 40 C.F.R. §761, Subpart G, to determine the applicability of TSCA cleanup standards,
Subpart d and subpart g of 40 C.F.R. §761 (July 1, 2001) are adopted by reference in these rules and are available for inspection at the DEQ, 525 West Allegan Street, Lansing,
Michigan. Copies of the regulations may be purchased, at a cost as of the time of adoption of these rules of $55, from the superintendent of documents, Government Printing,
Office, Washington, de 20401, or from the dEQ, RRD, 525 West Allegan Street, Lansing, Michigan 48933, at cost. Alternatives to compliance with the tsca standards listed
below are possible under 40 C.F.R. §761 Subpart D. New releases may be subject to the standards identified in 40 C.F.R. §761, Subpart G. Use Part 201 soil direct contact
cleanup criteria in the following table if TSCA standards are not applicable.

(U) Hazardous substance may exhibit the characteristic of corrosivity as defined in 40 C.F.R. §261.22 (revised as of July 1, 2001), which is adopted by reference in these rules and is
available for inspection at the DEQ, 525 West allegan Street, Lansing, Michigan. Copies of the regulation may be purchased, at a cost as of the time of adoption of these rules of
‘$45, from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, de 20401 (stock number 869-044-00155-1), ot from the dEQ, RRD, 525 West Allegan
Street, Lansing, Michigan 48933, at cost.

(V) Criterion is the aesthetic drinking water value as required by Section 20120(a\(5) of the NREPA. concentrations up to 200 ug/L may be acceptable, and still allow for drinking
water use, as part of a site-specific cleanup under Section 20120a(2) of the NREPA.

(W) Concentrations of trihalomethanes in groundwater shall be added together to determine compliance with the Michigan drinking water standard of 80 ug/L. Concentrations of
trihalomethanes in soil shall be added together to determine compliance with the drinking water protection criterion of 1,600 ug/kg.

(X) The GSI criterion shown in the generic cleanup criteria tables is not protective for surface water that is used as a drinking water source. For a groundwater discharge to the Great
Lakes and their connecting waters or discharge in close proximity to a water supply intake in inland surface waters, the generic GSI criterion shall be the surface water human
drinking water value (HDV) listed in the table in this footnote, except for those HDV indicated with an asterisk. For HDV with an asterisk, the generic GSI criterion shall be the
lowest of the HDV, the WV, and the calculated FCV. see formulas in footnote (G). Soil protection criteria based on the HDV shall be as listed in the table in this footnote,
except for those values with an asterisk. Soil GSI protection criteria based on the HDV shall be as listed in the table in this footnote, except for those values with an asterisk. Soil
GSI protection criteria for compounds with an asterisk shall be the greater of 20 times the GSI criterion or the GSI soil-water partition values using the GSI criteria developed
with the procedure described in this footnote.

(Y) Source size modifiers shown in the following table shall be used to determine soil inhalation criteria for ambient air when the source size is not one-half acre.

(Z) Mercury is typically measured as total mercury. The generic cleanup criteria, however, are based on data for different species of mercury. Specifically, data for elemental
mercury, chemical abstract service (CAS) number 7439976, serve as the basis for the soil volatilization to indoor air criteria, groundwater volatilization to indoor air, and soil
inhalation criteria. Data for methyl mercury, CAS number 22967926, serve as the basis for the GSI criterion; and data for mercuric chloride, CAS number 7487947, serve as the
basis for the drinking water, groundwater contact, soil direct contact, and the groundwater protection criteria. Comparison to criteria shall be based on species-specific analytical
data only if sufficient facility characterization has been conducted to rule out the presence of other species of mercury.

(AA) Comparison to these criteria may take into account an evaluation of whether the hazardous substances are adsorbed to particulates rather than dissolved in water and whether
filtered groundwater samples were used to evaluate groundwater.

(BB) The state drinking water standard for asbestos is in units of fibers per milliliter of water (f/mL) longer than 10 millimicrons. Soil concentrations of asbestos are determined by
polarized light microscopy.

(CC) Groundwater: The generic GSI criteria are based on the toxicity of unionized ammonia (NH3); the criteria are 29 ug/L and 53 ug/L for cold water and warm water surface water,
respectively. As a result, the GSI criterion shall be compared to the percent of the total ammonia concentration in the groundwater that will become NH3 in the surface water.
This percent NH3 is a function of the pH and temperature of the receiving surface water and can be estimated using the following table, taken from Emerson, et al., (Journal of the
Fisheries Research Board of Canada, Volume 32(12):2382, 1975).

(DD) Hazardous substance causes developmental effects. Residential and commercial I direct contact criteria are protective of both prenatal and postnatal exposure, Industrial and
commercial II, III and IV direct contact criteria are protective for a pregnant adult receptor.

(EE) The following are applicable generic GSI criteria as required by
Section 20120a(15) of the NREPA.

(FF) The chloride GSI criterion shall be 125 mg/l when the discharge is to surface waters of the state designated as public water supply sources or 50 mg/l when the discharge is to the
Great Lakes or connecting waters. Chloride GSI criteria shall not apply for surface waters of the state that are not designated as a public water supply source, however, the total
dissolved solids criterion is applicable.

(GG) Risk-based criteria are not available for methane duc to insufficient toxicity data. An acceptable soil gas concentration (presented for both residential and commercial/industrial
land uses) was derived utilizing 25 percent of the lower explosive level for methane, This equates to 1.25 percent or 8.4E+6 ug/m3.

ID __ Insufficient data to develop criterion.

NA criterion or value is not available or, in the case of background and CAS numbers, not applicable.

NLL Hazardous substance is not likely to leach under most soil conditions.

NLV Hazardous substance is not likely to volatilize under most conditions,

ug/Kg Micrograms per kilogram

ug/L Micorgrams per liter

NS Not Sampled

BDL _ Below Detection Limits

+ ~ Statewide default soil Background levels are relevant for all land uses and are substituted for the cleanup Criterion for a Hazardous Substance whenever the applicable risk-based
criterion is lower than the statewide background level for that particular Hazardous Substance (R 299.5706a(5)(b), R 299.5707).
