B AKTPEERLESS

7.8 CORRECTIVE ACTION DISCHARGES

If the corrective action will result in any discharge during its implementation, complete the
following: (1) Describe the activity(ies) representing the source(s) of the discharge, (2)
Provide the following information regarding the planned discharges including (a) the
source of the discharge, (b) location of the discharge, (c) describe any treatment that will be
performed prior to the discharge, (d) Indicate whether any permits are required for the
discharge and describe what steps have been taken to obtain the necessary permits, and (e)
indicate whether any permit exemptions are required for the discharge, and include a copy
of the Permit Exemption Acceptance.

Not applicable. No corrective actions are planned.

8.0 CLOSURE VERIFICATION SAMPLING
8.1 SOIL CLOSURE VERIFICATION

A. Describe the soil verification sampling strategy applied at the site by providing the

following:

1. A scaled map which identifies the former extent of the soil contamination, and the
soil verification sampling locations relative to existing site features.

Refer to Figure 3.

2; For a corrective action involving excavation, a scaled drawing showing the floor and

walls of the excavation and the associated sampling locations. The drawing should
also depict the subsurface stratigraphy, soil types, fractures, discolored soil
locations, adjoining conduits or potential migration pathways, and locations of
former and existing UST system components, as appropriate.

Refer to Figures 3 through 5.

3. A description of how the number and location of samples collected for soil
verification purposes was established, if your sampling strategy differs from the
MDEQ Verification of Soil Remediation Guidance Document and Storage Tank
Division Operational Memorandum No. 9, Groundwater and Soil Closure
Verification Guidance, provide justification.

The sampling strategy follows the Storage Tank Division Operational Memorandum No. 9.

4. A list of the analytical parameters used to verify the soil remediation.

Parameters used to verify soil remediation include used oil indicator parameters (i.e., benzene,
ethylbenzene, toluene, and xylenes, trimethylbenzene isomers, 1,2-dibromoethane, 1,2-
dichloroethane, polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons, cadmium, chromium, lead, and volatile
halocarbons.
