B AKTPEERLESS

5.0 SITE CLASSIFICATION
A. Indicate the current Site Classification Level.

AKT Peerless has conducted sampling activities at the site to determine the appropriate site
classification based on known existing conditions and information contained in the MDEQ
Remediation and Redevelopment Division’s (RRD) Operational Memorandum No. 3. The site is
currently classified as a Class 4 site.

B. Provide a justification for this classification. Identify the current conditions that are
the basis of the classification.

Class 4 was chosen for this site since (1) no free product was encountered, (2) detectable
concentrations are below flammability and explosivity screening levels, (3) soil is not
contaminated above applicable MDEQ Part 213 Tier I RBSLs, (4) soil contamination is not
likely to vent to surface water bodies of the State at concentrations exceeding the Groundwater
Surface Water Interface RBSLs, and (5) there is no potential for contamination to affect sensitive
habitat. Therefore, this site does not exhibit long-term threats to human health, safety or
sensitive environmental receptors.

Cc. Indicate whether the site classification has changed since the submission of the IAR.

An Initial Assessment Report was not submitted.

6.0 RESULTS OF THE RBCA EVALUATION
6.1 EXPOSURE PATHWAY CHARACTERIZATION

A. Identify and describe the following (Figure 2, Exposure Scenario Evaluation
Flowchart, provided in the ASTM RBCA E 1739-95, may be utilized):
1. Potential source(s)
Potential Primary Sources Potential Source of On-going Contamination (Yes or No)
Former UST No — tank was removed from ground
Operations No — site is no longer operated as automobile repair facility
Potential Secondary Sources =i
Affected Surface Soil No — surface soil has not been affected

No — contaminants are not present in the subsurface soil above

atiected Subsurface Sol) applicable Part 213 Tier I Residential RBSLs

Dissolved Groundwater Plume No — groundwater was not encountered
Free Phase Liquids No — free phase liquids have not been encountered
Affected Sediments No — sediment not affected
Affected Surface Water No — surface waters not affected
2. Potential transport mechanism(s)

10
