MB AKTPEERLESS

used motor oil indicator parameters' to evaluate the nature and extent of adsorbed hydrocarbon
contamination.

Based on the soil laboratory analytical results, target parameters were not detected above
applicable MDEQ Part 213 Tier I Risk Based Screening Levels (RBSLs). Refer to Table 1 for a
summary of the soil analytical results, Figure 6 for a Site Map with Soil Analytical Results, and
Appendix C for a copy of the laboratory analytical report.

Scope of Assessment

To ensure the accuracy of data collected during on site activities, AKT Peerless implemented
proper quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) measures. The QA/QC procedures included,
but were not limited to, (1) decontamination of sampling equipment before and between
sampling events, (2) calibration of field equipment, (3) documentation of field activities, and (4)
sample preservation techniques, and QA/QC sample collection.

Soil Evaluation

The results of AKT Peerless’ soil sampling activities conducted subsequent to the removal of the
UST system did not identify the presence of chemicals of concern at concentrations above
applicable MDEQ Part 213 Tier I RBSLs ( Residential Cleanup Criteria); therefore, no further
evaluation of the study area soil is necessary.

Groundwater Evaluation
Groundwater was not encountered during UST removal activities.

4.4 SOIL CONDITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS
A. Describe the soil encountered in the vadose zone.

The geology encountered during the UST removal activities consisted of medium stiff, brown to
brown and gray clay from just below the ground surface (bgs) to at least eight feet bgs. The UST
cavity was backfilled with fine to medium-grained sand to approximately six feet bgs.

B. Describe any soil contamination which has been detected.

During UST removal activities, limited visual evidence of contamination was apparent in the
underlying soil in close proximity to the UST. AKT Peerless supervised the remedial excavation
of approximately 10 cubic yards of soil from the area beneath the former UST. The soil was
manifested, loaded, and transported off-site to Arbor Hills Landfill (Northville, Michigan). AKT
Peerless collected soil samples from the bottom and sidewalls of the excavation. The samples
were submitted for laboratory analysis of used motor oil parameters. Concentrations of VOCs,
PNAs, and metals were detected in the soil; however, the concentrations were below applicable
MDEQ Part 213 Tier 1 RBSLs.

' Used motor oil parameters include volatile halocarbons, BTEX, TMBs, 1,2-dibromoethane (EDB), 1,2-
dichloroethane (DCA), PNAs, cadmium, chromium, and lead.
