BB AKTPEERLESS

E. List of former and existing USTs at this facility*

HASTHE | HAS THE TANK
NOMAED | CONTENTS Cm TANK BEEN BEEN
EMPTIED? | REMOVED?

1 Used oil 550
2 Heating oil** 1,000
*Information obtained from MDEQ Leaking Underground Storage Tank database.
**UST is exempt from Part 211 and 213 regulations, however, is still registered on the MDEQ UST database.

This Closure Report discusses response and corrective actions taken to address the release of
used oil from UST No. 1.

It is important to note that the used oil UST was encountered after the heating oil UST at the
subject property despite being registered as Tank No. 1. Therefore, the verification of soil
remediation (VSR) samples were labeled ““UST-2” in the field.

F. Initial Response Activities Relating to the Release

On July 23, 2012, Parks Installation and Excavation (Parks) under the supervision of AKT
Peerless began the removal of the UST system located at the site. This UST system consisted of
one 550-gallon used oil UST. AKT Peerless observed a vertical fill pipe in the top if the UST.
The fill pipe was removed during removal of the UST. Refer to the table below for details
pertaining to the UST system formerly present at the site.

Tank | Capacity | Substance an Piping Piping Piping Den 2 Impressed
ID (gallons) Stored Release Release Material T Construction Devi
2 Detection | Detection ype Material ures
1 550 Used oil Unknown Unknown Bare Steel Unknown Asphalt coated | No
or bare steel

*Information obtained from MDEQ Leaking Underground Storage Tank database.

During UST removal activities, limited field evidence (i.e., photoionization detector [PID],
visual, olfactory) of contamination was apparent in the underlying soil in close proximity to the
UST. As a precautionary measure, AKT Peerless supervised the remedial excavation of
approximately 10 cubic yards of soil from the area of the former UST. The soil was manifested,
loaded, and transported off-site to Arbor Hills Landfill (Northville, Michigan). Refer to
Appendix A for photographs taken during the UST removal activities. Refer to Appendix B for a
copy of the soil remediation manifest.

3.0 REPORTING & RESPONSE TO RELEASES INVOLVING FREE PRODUCT

Free product was not encountered during UST removal activities.

LNAPL was not observed during the UST removal or remedial excavation activities at the site.
The remedial excavation activities conducted at the subject property included the removal of
approximately 10 cubic yards of petroleum impacted soil. Based on (1) the absence of LNAPL
observed during investigation activities, (2) the removal of the UST system, and (3) the remedial
